# Analyses in Educational Equity Through Educational Opportunity Index Using Arc GIS PRO software
## - The Geographic landscape of Educational Opportunity in King County

## Introduction
The report describes the geographic distribution of educational quality in King County, Seattle, Washington. The quality of education is scored in five aspects: reading test scores, math test scores, student poverty, teacher qualifications, graduation rates. Each measure of educational quality is analyzed statistically, breaking it down into five levels. In addition, a comprehensive analysis of the five criteria is made to show the level and geographical distribution. Moreover, the report discusses the relationship between different levels of educational opportunity and geography and discusses the potential opportunities of geography for education.

## explanation of the potential of opportunity mapping

By using opportunity mapping to reflect the education situation in King County, we can clearly see which of the five aspects of education is the weakest and see the distribution of the weak education in a specific area. Reflecting education on the map and combine the level of education with the geographical environment. Geographic regions may be responsible for educational differences. The level of education is related to the community, and the specific reasons for the weakness of education are analyzed. So, take the lessons of well-educated communities and learn from them. Through opportunity mapping, the community with weak education is shown and analyzed in combination with the social environment of the community. Thus, arouse the concern of government, society, enterprises, and other relevant organizations.

## explanation of the five variables and details the measurement or operationalized. 

The quality of education is measured in reading test scores, math test scores, student poverty, teacher qualifications, and graduation rates. The reading test and math test scores are the compass test used to enter schools in the United States. They are essential basic skills for students in school and in life. In addition, much of the literature shows that student achievement and graduation rates are related to their poverty. Some learning opportunities, resources, and after-school programs are usually available to high-income children. Poor areas are still vulnerable groups in terms of school conditions. Poverty affects children's academic performance and makes it difficult for them to learn. Student graduation rates are a true reflection of the quality of education. Moreover, teachers' teaching methods, educational background and teaching experience have a direct impact on students' performance. Therefore, these five variables become the criteria for evaluating the comprehensive education.

Z-score is usually used to calculate the educational opportunity index, which is a measure that quantifies the distance a data point is from the mean of a data set. The use of Z-scores allows data a census tract to be measures based on its relative distance from the reginal average. In the calculation of educational opportunity index, I used Census Tract in King County. First, import the data of the five variables of the education index into AcrGIS, and then calculate the Z-scores of each variable respectively in the attribute according to Z-scores = (Observation -mean)/standard deviation. Next, calculate the average value of 5 Z-scores. Quintile classification was performed on the five variables by statistical method. The variable will be grouped into quintiles - lowest 20%, next 20% and so on. Then the Quintile Classification is divided into 5 parts as 1 – Very low, 2 -- Low, 3 -- Moderate, 4 -- High, and 5 – Very high using Python’s “if else” and then fill in attribute of Index column.

## discussion of each of the 5 individual measures
### Edu1: Reading test scores
